Initially, in the beginning of this extract, Alagiah introduces the idea of inner conflict about his profession through his vivid use of predatory language 'ghoulish', 'tramped', and 'on the hunt' as well as his negative diction of describing the tragedy of the profession as 'what might have appalled [them] when [they]'d started [...] no longer impressed [them] as much', a feature which evokes his criticism towards journalism as a guilty profession which leads them to become desensitised, suggesting how greedy his role as a reporter is.  Furthermore, the descriptive use of 'old stuff' establishes a strong, dismissive tone; through his use of this tone, he reflects on how the media industry dehumanizes the subjects of those images, and how this deliberate lack of attention to the humanity and human presence, described as 'old stuff' emphasizes the negative aspects of journalism as a heartless profession.

 

Moreover, Alagiah further explores this inner conflict about his profession through his use of contrast as this 'sounds callous, but it is just a fact of life', and how while people out there are suffering, people are sitting 'in the comfort of their sitting rooms back home'. Adding on, a reference to identity is introduced through the named 'Amina Abdirahman',  and through her death there was 'no rage, no whimpering, just a passing away', implying that death can be used as an escape from the torture of reality; this use of emotive word choice and structure evoke the pathos of the reader as conditions are reversed and an emotional response of disgust is present us a result. Meanwhile, Alagiah implies a 'careless' tone which emphasizes the desensitisation that reporters hold even after experiencing such a dreadful, poignant experience; they feel nothing.

 

Additionally, the emphasis on the fact that 'everyone else [he] met that day was a mixture of pity and revulsion. Yes revulsion', implies his honest, candid tone and attitude, as it is 'a disgusting thing', even though they 'never say so in [their] TV reports'. This use of poignant imagery impresses the reader with a sense of pathos,  as reinforced by the parallel contrast of 'it was rotting; she was rotting', where the parallel construction emphasizes the horrible image of suffering. The repetition of rotting not only emphasizes her struggle for survival, and how her dirtiness and pitiful state is shocking, but additionally reinforces a sense of our own guilt of revulsion, linking to how meanwhile we are sitting comfortably and living relaxed lives, this is happening. And while we know this is disgusting, he is disgusting, and yet still is affirmative, portraying the dishonesty of journalism and the incredibility that reporters suggest through their complete misunderstanding of humanity and human emotion.

 